<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 19</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIX</span></h2>
			<p>His mother was waiting to give George his breakfast. Whether he chose to lie in bed until noon or to walk twenty miles at dawn, she smiled a joyful approval. But neither the crisp toast, nor the fried chicken, nor any of her funny stories, would penetrate the blackness of his gloom.</p>
			<p>“Oh, by the way!” she said; “here is a letter that came by last night’s mail. I forgot to give it to you.”</p>
			<p>He glanced at the envelope. “Great Heavens! It is life and death to me, and you forget it to tell Jack’s pert sayings!” He read the letter and threw it down.</p>
			<p>“What is it, George?” she asked humbly.</p>
			<p>“Burnett &amp; Hoyle offer me a place in their house.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hoyle is an old friend of mine. I wrote to him. What is the salary, George?”</p>
			<p>“Forty dollars a week. I could earn more as a coachman⁠—for some rich heiress.”</p>
			<p>“But George dear⁠⸺ It would be a beginning. They are brokers, and there are so many shortcuts to fortune in that business! Do try it, my son.”</p>
			<p>“Of course I’ll try it. Do you think I’m a fool? It will keep me from starving. But I want something else in life than to be kept from starving, mother.”</p>
			<p>He stretched out his arms with a groan, and walked to the window. She followed him with wretched, comprehending eyes. Why did not Lucy give him her fortune? Any woman would be honored who could give George her fortune.</p>
			<p>“I always have heard that brokers know the shortcuts to wealth,” she said calmly. “You go on the Street some day, and come back a millionaire.”</p>
			<p>“That is a woman’s idea of business. Instead, I will sit on a high stool and drudge all day, and on Saturday get my wages, and after three or four years I’ll make a fight for ten dollars more a week, and thank God if I get it. ‘A shortcut to fortune!’ ”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux carefully averted her eyes from him. “You may marry,” she said, “and it may happen that your wife also will have some little income⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“Mother! Look at me!” he interrupted her sternly. “I will never be dependent on my wife, so help me God!”</p>
			<p>“No, George, no! Of course not. Don’t speak so loud. Only, I thought if she had a small sum of her own, she would feel more comfortable, that’s all.”</p>
			<br/>
			<p>In spite of his ill temper George threw himself into his work with zeal. After a couple of months he came home for a day. He was dressed with the quiet elegance which once had been so important in his eyes.</p>
			<p>His mother noted it shrewdly. “A man has more courage to face life, decently clothed,” she said to herself.</p>
			<p>He did not come again until winter. Lucy happened to be spending the day with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux. There were no liveried servants, no priceless rings, no Worth gown in sight. She was just the shy, foolish girl whom he had once for an hour looked upon as his wife. George talked about Wall Street to her, being now wise as to stocks; took her out sleighing, and when in the evening she took Jack in her arms and sang him to sleep, sat listening with his head buried in his hands. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux carried the boy up to bed, and Lucy and George were left alone. They talked long and earnestly.</p>
			<p>“She consulted me about her affairs,” he said, after she was gone, his eyes shining.</p>
			<p>“I am afraid she does not understand business!” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux replied anxiously.</p>
			<p>“Oh, like a woman! That is, not at all. Her whole property is in the hands of The Consolidated Good Faith Companies. I reminded her of the old adage, ‘Never put all of your eggs into one basket.’ ”</p>
			<p>“But that is so sound a basket, George!” “Yes. It is thought so,” with a shrug.</p>
			<p>“Poor child! She needs a guardian to advise her.”</p>
			<p>Waldeaux’s countenance grew black. “She should employ an attorney. It certainly will never be my duty to advise Miss Dunbar,” he retorted irritably.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>George showed himself shrewd and able in his work. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hoyle was a powerful backer. Before spring his salary was doubled. But what was that? The gulf between him and the great heiress gaped, impassable.</p>
			<p>Lucy spent much time with her old friend, and Frances at last broke the silence concerning him.</p>
			<p>“The boy never before knew what love was. And it is you that he loves, child.”</p>
			<p>“He has not told me so,” said Lucy coldly.</p>
			<p>“No. And never will. It is your wealth that makes him dumb. I wish it was gone,” said Frances earnestly. “Gone. You would be so happy. What is money compared to being⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“George’s wife?” Lucy laughed.</p>
			<p>“Yes. George’s wife. I know what he is worth,” his mother said boldly. “You might give it away?” looking eagerly in the girl’s face. “In charity.”</p>
			<p>“I might do so,” said Miss Dunbar tranquilly.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>One morning in April <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux saw George coming up from the station. She ran to meet him.</p>
			<p>He was pale and breathless with excitement. “What is it? What has happened?” she cried.</p>
			<p>“Hush⁠—h! Come in. Shut the door. No one must hear. The Consolidated Companies have failed. They have robbed their depositors.”</p>
			<p>“Well, George? What have we⁠⸺ Oh, Lucy!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Lucy! She is ruined! She has nothing. It was all there.” He paced up and down, hoarse with agitation and triumph. “She mustn’t know it, mother, until she is safe in another home.”</p>
			<p>“Another home?” “Oh, surely you understand! Here⁠—if she will come. Poor little girl! She has not a dollar! I am getting a big salary. I can work for you all. My God! I will have her at last! Unless⁠⸺ Perhaps she won’t come! Mother, do you think she will come?” He caught her arm, his jaws twitched, the tears stood in his eyes, as when he used to come to her with his boyish troubles.</p>
			<p>“How can I tell?” said Frances. “Go and ask her.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
