<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 12</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XII</span></h2>
			<p>Prince Hugo had made no secret of his intentions with regard to Miss Dunbar, so that when it was known that his sisters and the rich American Mees would at last meet at the Countess von Amte’s there was a flutter of curiosity in the exclusive circle of Munich. The countess herself called twice on Clara that day, so great was her triumph that this social event would occur at her house.</p>
			<p>She asked boldly “Which of Miss Dunbar’s marvellous Parisian confections will she wear? It is so important for her future happiness that the princesses should be favorably impressed! Aber, lieber Gott!” she shrieked, “don’t let her speak French! Not a word! That would be ruin! They are all patriotism!” She hurried away, and ran back to say that the sun was shining as it had not done for days.</p>
			<p>“She thinks nature itself is agog to see how the princesses receive Lucy,” said Miss Vance indignantly. “One would suppose that the child was on trial.”</p>
			<p>“So she is. Me, too,” said Jean, wistfully regarding the bebe waist of the gown which Doucet had just sent her. “I must go as an ingenue. I don’t play the part well!”</p>
			<p>“No, you do not,” said Clara.</p>
			<p>Miss Vance tapped at Lucy’s door as she went down, and found her working at her embroidery. “You must lie down for an hour, my dear,” she said, “and be fresh and rosy for this evening.”</p>
			<p>“I am not going. I must finish these pinks. I have just sent a note of apology to the countess.”</p>
			<p>“Not going!” Clara gasped, dismayed. Then she laughed with triumph. “The princesses and all the Herrschaft of Munich will be there to pass judgment on the bride, and the bride will be sitting at home finishing her pinks! Good!”</p>
			<p>“I am no bride!” Lucy rose, stuck her needle carefully in its place, and came closer to Miss Vance. “I have made up my mind,” she said earnestly. “I shall never marry. My life now is quiet and clean. I’m not at all sure that it would be either if I were the Princess Wolfburgh.”</p>
			<p>Clara stroked her hair fondly. “Your decision is sudden, my dear,” she faltered, at last.</p>
			<p>“Yes. There was something last night. It showed me what I was doing. To marry a man just because he is good and kind, that is⁠—vile!” The tears rushed to her eyes. There was a short silence.</p>
			<p>“Don’t look so aghast, dear Miss Vance,” said Lucy cheerfully. “Go now and dress to meet the Herrschaft.”</p>
			<p>“And what will you do, child?”</p>
			<p>“I really must finish these pinks to-night.” She took up her work. Her chin trembled a little. “We won’t speak of this again, please,” she said. “I never shall be a bride or a wife or mother. I will have a quiet, independent life⁠—like yours.”</p>
			<p>The sunshine fell on the girl’s grave, uplifted face, on the white walls, the blue stove, and the calm, watching Madonnas. Clara, as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux had done, thought of a nun in her cell to whom love could only be a sacred dream.</p>
			<p>She smiled back at Lucy, bade her goodnight, and closed the door.</p>
			<p>“Like mine?” she said, as she went down the corridor. “Well, it is a comfortable, quiet life. But empty⁠—” And she laid her hand suddenly across her thin breast.</p>
			<p>Jean listened in silence when Clara told her briefly that Lucy was not going.</p>
			<p>“She is very shrewd,” she said presently. “She means to treat them de haut en bas from the outset. It is capital policy.”</p>
			<p>Jean, when she entered the countess’s salon, with downcast eyes, draped in filmy lace without a jewel or flower, was shy innocence in person. Furst Hugo stood near the hostess, with two stout women in shabby gowns and magnificent jewels.</p>
			<p>“The frocks they made themselves, and the emeralds are heirlooms,” Jean muttered to Clara, without lifting her timid eyes.</p>
			<p>“Miss Dunbar is not coming?” exclaimed the prince.</p>
			<p>“No,” said Miss Vance.</p>
			<p>“The Fraulein is ill?” demanded one of his sisters.</p>
			<p>“No,” Clara said, again smiling. “<i>We</i> expected to meet her,” the younger princess said. “It is most singular⁠—”</p>
			<p>“She has sent her apology to the countess,” said Clara gently, and passed on.</p>
			<p>But her little triumph was short lived.</p>
			<p>A famous professional soprano appeared in a white-ribboned enclosure at the end of the salon, and the guests were rapidly arranged according to their rank to listen. Clara and Jean stood until every man and woman were comfortably seated, when they were placed in the back row.</p>
			<p>When the music was over supper was announced, and the same ceremony was observed. The Highnessess, the hochwohlgeboren privy councillors, the hochgeboren secretaries, even the untitled Herren who held some petty office, were ushered with profound deference to their seats at the long table, while Clara stood waiting. Jean’s eyes still drooped meekly, but even her lips were pale.</p>
			<p>“How can you look so placid?” she whispered. “It is a deliberate insult to your gray hairs.”</p>
			<p>“No. It is the custom of the country. It does not hurt me.”</p>
			<p>They were led at the moment to the lowest seats. Jean shot one vindictive glance around the table.</p>
			<p>“You have more wit and breeding than any of them!” she said. “And as for me, this lace I wear would buy any of their rickety old palaces.”</p>
			<p>“They have something which we cannot buy,” said Miss Vance gravely. “I never understood before how actual a thing rank is here.”</p>
			<p>“Cannot it be bought? I am going to look into that when this huge feed is over,” Miss Hassard said to herself.</p>
			<p>Late in the evening she danced with Count Odo, and prattled to him in a childish, frank fashion which he found very charming.</p>
			<p>“Your rules of precedence are very disagreeable!” she pouted. “Especially when one sits at the foot of the table and is served last.”</p>
			<p>“They must seem queer to you,” he said, laughing, “but they are inflexible as iron.”</p>
			<p>“But they will bend for Miss Dunbar, if she makes up her mind to marry your cousin?” she asked, looking up into his face like an innocent child.</p>
			<p>“No. Hugo makes a serious sacrifice in marrying a woman of no birth,” he said. “He must give up his place and title as head of the family. She will not be received at court nor in certain houses; she must always remain outside of much of his social life.”</p>
			<p>He led her back to Miss Vance. She seemed to be struck dumb, and even forgot to smile when he bowed low and thanked her for the dance.</p>
			<p>“Let us go home,” she whispered to Clara. “The American girl is a fool who marries one of these men!”</p>
			<p>When Miss Vance’s carriage reached her hotel, she found Prince Hugo’s coupe before the door.</p>
			<p>“He has come to see Lucy, alone!” she said indignantly, as she hurried up the steps. “He has no right to annoy her!”</p>
			<p>She met him coming out of the long salle. The little man walked nervously, fingering his sword hilt. He could not control his voice when he tried to speak naturally.</p>
			<p>“Yes, gracious lady, I am guilty. It was unpardonable to come when I knew the chaperone was gone. But⁠—ach! I could not wait!” throwing out both hands to her. “I have waited so long! I knew when she did not come to meet my sisters to-night she had resolved against me, but I could not sleep uncertain. So I break all the laws, and come!”</p>
			<p>“You have seen her, then? She has told you?”</p>
			<p>He nodded without speaking. His round face was red, and something like tears stood in his eyes.</p>
			<p>He waited irresolute a moment, and then threw up his head.</p>
			<p>“Soh! It is over! I shall not whine! You have been very good to me,” he said earnestly, taking Clara’s hand. “This is the first great trouble in my life. I have loved her very dearly. I decided to make great sacrifices for her. But I am not to have her⁠—never.”</p>
			<p>“I am so sorry for you, prince.” Clara squeezed his hand energetically. “Nor her dot. That would have been so comfortable for me,” he said simply.</p>
			<p>Clara hid a smile, and bade him an affectionate good night.</p>
			<p>As he passed into the outer salle a childish figure in creamy lace rose before him, and a soft hand was held out. “I know what has happened!” she whispered passionately. “She has treated you scandalously! She cannot appreciate <i>you</i>!”</p>
			<p>Prince Hugo stuttered and coughed and almost kissed the little hand which lay so trustingly in his. He found himself safely outside at last, and drove away, wretched to the soul.</p>
			<p>But below his wretchedness something whispered: <i>She</i> appreciates me, and her dot is quite as large.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
