<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span></h2>
			<p>Clara Vance had her faults, but nobody could deny that, in this crisis, she acted with feeling and tact. She ignored mademoiselle and her lover, whose bliss was in evidence on deck all day, and took possession of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux, caring for her as tenderly as if she had been some poor wretch sentenced to death. “She has no intellect left except her ideas about George,” she told herself, “and if he turns his back on her for life in this way⁠⸺ She never was too sane!” shaking her head ominously.</p>
			<p>She thought it best to talk frankly of the matter to little Lucy Dunbar, and was relieved to find her ready to joke and laugh at it. “No bruise in that tender heart!” thought Clara, who was anxious as a mother for her girls.</p>
			<p>“We all worshipped <abbr>Mr.</abbr> George,” said Lucy saucily. “I, most of all. He is so cold, so exalted and ah⁠—h, so good-looking! Like a Greek god. But he never gave a look to poor little me! The fraulein came on deck as soon as we all went down with sea-sickness, and bewitched him with her eyes. It must have been her eyes; they are yellow⁠—witch’s eyes. Or maybe that cheap smell about her is a love-philter! Or was it just soul calling to soul? I should have said the fraulein had the soul of a milliner. She put great ideas into the hat that she altered for me,” Lucy added, with an unsteady laugh.</p>
			<p>“I care nothing for them or their souls,” said Miss Vance crossly. “It is his mother that I think of.”</p>
			<p>“But really,” said Lucy, “mademoiselle is quite raw material. No ideas⁠—no manners whatever. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux may mould her into something good and fine.”</p>
			<p>“She will not try. She will never accept that creature as a daughter.”</p>
			<p>“She seems to me to be indifferent,” said Lucy. “She does not see how terrible it is. She was leaning over the bulwark just now, laughing at the queer gossoons selling their shillalahs.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, she will laugh at Death himself when he comes to fetch her, and see something ‘queer’in him,” said Clara.</p>
			<p>But her little confidence with Lucy had relieved her. The child cared nothing for George, that was plain.</p>
			<p>Mademoiselle, watching <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux closely all day, was not deceived by her laugh. “The old lady, your mother,” she said to George, “is what you men call ‘game.’ She has blood and breeding. More than you, monsieur. That keeps her up. I did not count on that,” said the young woman thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>George took off his glasses and rubbed them nervously as he talked. “I don’t understand my mother at all! She has always been very considerate and kind. I never thought that she would receive my wife, when I brought her to her, with calm civility. Not a kiss nor a blessing!”</p>
			<p>“A kiss? A blessing for me?” Lisa laughed and nodded meaningly to the sea and world at large. “She could hardly have blessed a woman lolling full length in her chair,” she thought. “It <i>is</i> her chair. And I have unseated her for life curling herself up in the rugs.”</p>
			<p>Yet she had a twinge of pity for the old lady. Even the wild boar has its affections and moments of gentleness. A week ago Lisa could have trampled the life out of this woman who had slandered her dead mother, with the fury of any wild beast. For she was Pauline Felix’s daughter. It was her mother’s name that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux had said could not be spoken by any decent woman. Lisa had been but a child, but she had held her mother’s head close to her stout little heart as she lay dying⁠—that awful mysterious death of which the young man had tried to make a telling story. The girl crossed herself now and closed her tired eyes as she thought of it. She had been a wicked child and a wicked woman, but she knew certainly that the Virgin and her Son had come near to her that day, and had helped her.</p>
			<p>George, who was poring fondly on her face, exclaimed: “Your eyes are wet. You are in trouble!”</p>
			<p>“I was thinking of my mother,” she said gently, holding out her hand to him.</p>
			<p>He took it and said presently, “Will you not talk to me about her, Lisa? You have not told me anything of your people, my darling. Nor of yourself. Why, I don’t even know whether you are French or German.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you shall hear the whole story when we are married,” she replied softly, a wicked glitter in her eyes. “Some of the noblest blood in Europe is in my veins. I will give you my genealogical tree to hang up in that old homestead of yours. It will interest the people of Weir⁠—and please your mother.”</p>
			<p>“It is good in you to think of her,” he said, tenderly looking down at her.</p>
			<p>He was not blind. He saw the muddy skin, the thick lips, the soiled, ragged lace. They would have disgusted him in another woman.</p>
			<p>But this was⁠—Lisa. There was no more to be said.</p>
			<p>These outside trifles would fall off when she came into his life. Even with them she was the breath and soul of it.</p>
			<p>She saw the difference between them more sharply than he did. She had been cast for a low part in the play, and knew it. Sometimes she had earned the food which kept her alive in ways of which this untempted young priest had never even heard. There was something in this clean past of his, in his cold patrician face and luxurious habits new to her, and she had a greedy relish for it all.</p>
			<p>She had been loved before, caressed as men caress a dog, kicking it off when it becomes troublesome. George’s boyish shyness, his reverent awe of her, startled her.</p>
			<p>“He thinks Lisa Arpent a jeune fille⁠—like these others. A little white rose!” she thought, and laughed. She would not tell him why she laughed, and muttered an oath when he stupidly insisted on knowing.</p>
			<p>He was the first lover who had ever believed in her.</p>
			<p>She had begun this affair simply to punish the “old woman”; the man in it had counted for nothing. But now, as they crossed the gangway, she looked up at him with eyes that for the moment were honest and true as a child’s, and her firm hand suddenly trembled in his.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>Three weeks later <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux came into Miss Vance’s little parlor on Half Moon Street. Her face was red from the wind, her eyes sparkled, and she hummed some gay air which an organ ground outside. Clara laid down her pen.</p>
			<p>“Where have you been, Frances? It is a week since I saw you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, everywhere! George has been showing me London!” She sat down before the fire with a gurgle of comfort and dropped her bonnet and gloves on the floor beside her. “Yesterday we spent at the Museum. George explained the Elgin marbles to me. I don’t suppose any body in London has studied their history so thoroughly. I did wish you could have heard him. And the day before I was at the House⁠—in the ladies’ gallery. I can’t imagine how he got admission for me. He <i>is</i> so clever!”</p>
			<p>“We are going down to Canterbury for a couple of days,” said Clara. “We start at noon. Will you go with us?”</p>
			<p>“No, I think not. George does not seem to care for cathedrals. And he has plans for me, no doubt.”</p>
			<p>Miss Vance brushed the bonnet and carefully rolled up the strings. “Are you satisfied? Is London the London you have been thinking of these twenty years?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, a thousand times more! And George has been with me every day⁠—every day!”</p>
			<p>Miss Vance picked up the gloves, looking impatiently at the poor lady’s happy face. “Now she has gone off into one of her silly transports of delight, and for no earthly reason!”</p>
			<p>“I noticed that George has seen very little of Lisa lately,” she said tentatively. “If he really means to marry her⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“Marry her! Clara! You surely never feared <i>that</i>?”</p>
			<p>“He certainly told us plainly enough that he would do it,” said Miss Vance testily.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you don’t understand him! You have had so little to do with young men. They are all liable to attacks like that⁠—as to measles and scarlet fever. But they pass off. Now, George is not as susceptible as most of them. But,” lowering her voice, “he was madly in love with the butcher’s Kate when he was ten, and five years afterward offered to marry the widow Potts. I thought he had outgrown the disease. There has been nothing of the kind since, until this fancy. It is passing off. Of course it is mortifying enough to think that such a poor creature as that could attract him for an hour.”</p>
			<p>“I was to blame,” Miss Vance said, with an effort. “I brought her in his way. But how was I to know that she was such a cat, and he such⁠⸺ If he should marry her⁠⸺”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux laughed angrily. “You are too absurd, Clara. A flirtation with such a woman was degrading enough, but George is not quite mad. He has not even spoken of her for days. Oh, here he comes! That is his step on the stairs.” She ran to the door. “He found that I was out and has followed me. He is the most ridiculous mother’s boy! Well, George, here I am! Have you thought of some thing new for me to see?” She glanced at Miss Vance, well pleased that she should see the lad’s foolish fondness for her.</p>
			<p>George forced a smile. He looked worn and jaded. Miss Vance noticed that his usually neat cravat was awry and his hands were gloveless. “Yes,” he said. “It is a little church. The oldest in London. I want to show it to you.”</p>
			<p>Miss Vance tied on <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux’s bonnet, smoothing her hair affectionately. “There are too many gray hairs here for your age, Frances,” she said. “George, you should keep your mother from worry and work. Don’t let her hair grow gray so soon.”</p>
			<p>George bowed. “I hope I shall do my duty,” he said, with dignity. “Come, mother.”</p>
			<p>As they drove down Piccadilly <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Waldeaux chattered eagerly to her son. She could not pour out her teeming fancies about this new world to any body else, but she could not talk fast enough to him. Had they not both been waiting for a lifetime to see this London?</p>
			<p>“The thing,” she said earnestly, as she settled herself beside him, “the thing that has impressed me most, I think, were those great Ninevite gods yesterday. I sat for hours before them while you were gone. There they sit, their hands on their knees, and stare out of their awful silence at the London fog, just as they stared at the desert before Christ was born. I felt so miserably young and sham!”</p>
			<p>George adjusted his cravat impatiently. “I’m afraid I don’t quite follow you, mother. These little flights of yours⁠⸺ They belong to your generation, I suppose. It was a more sentimental one than mine. You are not very young. And you certainly are not a sham. The statues are interesting, but I fail to see why they should have had such an effect upon you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” said Frances. “But you did not stay alone with them as long as I did, or you would have felt it too. Now I am sure that the debates in Parliament impressed you just as they did me?”</p>
			<p>George said nothing, but she went on eagerly. It never occurred to her that he could be bored by her impressions in these greatest days of her life. “To see a half-dozen well-groomed young men settle the affairs of India and Australia in a short, indifferent colloquy! How shy and awkward they were, too! They actually stuttered out their sentences in their fear of posing or seeming pretentious. So English! Don’t you think it was very English, George?”</p>
			<p>“I really did not think about it at all. I have had very different things to occupy me,” said George, coldly superior to all mothers and Parliaments. “This is the church.”</p>
			<p>The cab stopped before an iron door between two shops in the most thronged part of Bishopsgate Street. He pushed it open, and they passed suddenly out of the hurrying crowd into the solemn silence of an ancient dingy building. A dim light fell through a noble window of the thirteenth century upon cheap wooden pews. The church was empty, and had that curious significance and half-spoken message of its own which belongs to a vacant house.</p>
			<p>“I remember,” whispered Frances, awestruck. “This was built by the first Christian convert, <abbr>St.</abbr> Ethelburga.”</p>
			<p>“You believe everything, mother!” said George irritably. She wandered about, looking at the sombre walls and inscriptions, and then back uneasily, to his moody face.</p>
			<p>Suddenly she came up to him as he stood leaning against a pillar. “Something has happened!” she said. “You did not bring me here to look at the church. You have something to tell me.”</p>
			<p>The young man looked at her and turned away. “Yes, I have. It isn’t a death,” he said, with a nervous laugh. “You need not look in that way. It is⁠—something very different. I⁠—I was married in this church yesterday to Lisa Arpent.”</p>
			<p>Frances did not at first comprehend the great disaster that bulked black across her whole life, but, woman-like, grasped at a fragment of it.</p>
			<p>“You were married and I was not there! Yesterday! My boy was married and he forgot me!”</p>
			<p>“Mother! Don’t look like that! Here, sit down,” grabbing her helplessly by the arms. “I didn’t want to hurt you. I brought you here to tell you quietly. Cry! Why don’t you cry if you’re worried! Oh! I believe she’s dying!” he shouted, staring around the empty church.</p>
			<p>She spoke at last.</p>
			<p>“You were married and I couldn’t say God bless you! You forgot me! I never forgot you, George, for one minute since you were born.”</p>
			<p>“Mother, what fool talk is that? I only didn’t want a scene. I kept away from Lisa for weeks so as not to vex you. Forget you! I think I have been very considerate of you under the circumstances. You have a dislike to Lisa, a most groundless dislike⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“Oh, what is Lisa?” said Frances haughtily. “It is that you have turned away from me. She has nothing to do with the relation between you and me. How can any woman come between me and my son?” She held up her hands. “Why, you are my boy, Georgy. You are all I have!”</p>
			<p>He looked at the face, curiously pinched and drawn as if by death, that was turned up to his, and shrugged his shoulders impatiently. “Now this is exactly what I tried to escape yesterday. Am I never to be a man, nor have the rights of a man? You must accept the situation, mother. Lisa is my wife, and dearer to me than all the world beside.”</p>
			<p>He saw her lips move. “Dearer? Dearer than me!” She sat quite still after that, and did not seem to hear when he spoke. Something in her silence frightened him. She certainly had been a fond, indulgent mother, and he perhaps had been abrupt in cutting the tie between them. It must be cut. He had promised Lisa the whole matter should be settled to-day. But his mother certainly was a weak woman, and he must be patient with her. Secretly he approved the manliness of his patience.</p>
			<p>“The cab is waiting, dear,” he said. She rose and walked to the street, standing helpless there while the crowd jostled her. Was she blind and deaf? He put her into the cab and sat down opposite to her. “Half Moon Street,” he called to the driver.</p>
			<p>“Mother,” touching her on the knee.</p>
			<p>“Yes, George.”</p>
			<p>“I told him to drive to Half Moon Street. I will take you to Clara Vance. We may as well arrange things now, finally. You do not like my wife. That is clear. For the present, therefore, it is better that we should separate. I have consulted with Lisa, and she has suggested that you shall join Clara Vance’s party while we go our own way.”</p>
			<p>She stared at him. “Do you mean that you and I are not to see London together? Not to travel through Europe together?”</p>
			<p>He pitied her a little, and, leaning forward, kissed her clammy lips. “The thing will seem clearer to you to-morrow, no doubt. I must leave you now. Go to Clara and her girls. They all like to pet and make much of you. I will bring Lisa in the morning, to talk business a little. She has an uncommonly clear head for business. Goodbye, dear!” He stopped the cab, jumped out, and walked briskly to the corner where his wife was waiting for him.</p>
			<p>“You have told her?” she asked breathlessly.</p>
			<p>“Yes. It’s over.”</p>
			<p>“That we must separate?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, yes. I told her you thought it best.”</p>
			<p>“And she was not willing?”</p>
			<p>“Well, she did not approve very cordially,” said George, evading her eye.</p>
			<p>“But she shall approve!” hanging upon his arm, her burning eyes close to his face. “You are mine, George! I love you. I will share you with nobody!” She whistled shrilly, and a hansom stopped.</p>
			<p>“What are you going to do, darling?”</p>
			<p>“Follow her. I will tell her something that will make her willing to separate. Get in, get in!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
