<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 8</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span></h2>
			<p>Lucy was silent and dejected for a day or two, being filled with pity for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Perry’s ruined life. But when she saw his name in a list of outgoing passengers on the Paris her heart gave a bound of relief. Nothing more could now be done. That chapter was closed. There had been no other chapter of moment in her life, she told herself sternly. Now, all the clouds had cleared away. It was a new day. She would begin again.</p>
			<p>So she put on new clothes, none of which she had ever worn before, and tied back her curly hair with a fresh white ribbon, and came down to breakfast singing gayly.</p>
			<p>Miss Vance gave her her roll and milk in silence, and frowning importantly, drew out a letter.</p>
			<p>“Lucy, I have just received a communication from Prince Wolfburgh. He is in Bozen.”</p>
			<p>“Here!” Lucy started up, glancing around like a chased hare.</p>
			<p>Then she sat down again and waited. There was no other chapter, and the book was so blank!</p>
			<p>“His coming is very opportune,” she said presently, gently.</p>
			<p>“Oh! Do <i>you</i> think so, my dear? Really! Well, I always have liked the young man. So simple. So secure of his social position. The Wolfburghs, I find, go back to the eleventh century. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Perry had noble traits, but one never felt quite safe as to his nails or his grammar.”</p>
			<p>“But the prince⁠—the prince?” cried Jean.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. Well, he writes⁠—most deferentially. He begs for the honor of an interview with me this afternoon upon a subject of the most vital importance. He says, ‘regarding you, as I do, in loco parentis to the hochgeboren Fraulein Dunbar.’ ” “Hochgeboren!” said Lucy. “My grandfather was a saddler. Tell him so, Miss Vance. Tell him the exact facts. I want no disclosures after⁠—”</p>
			<p>“After marriage?” said Jean, rising suddenly. “Then you have decided?”</p>
			<p>“I have not said that I had decided,” replied Lucy calmly.</p>
			<p>Jean laughed. “He will not be scared by the saddler. Europeans of his order take no account of our American class distinctions. They look upon us as low-born parvenues, all alike. They weigh and value us by other standards than birth.”</p>
			<p>“I have money, if you mean that, Jean,” said Lucy cheerfully.</p>
			<p>“I think you had better go away, girls, if you have finished your dejeuner. He may be here at any moment now,” said Clara, looking anxiously at her watch.</p>
			<p>Lucy went to her little chamber and sat down to work at a monstrous caricature which she was painting of the church. Jean paced up and down the stone corridor, looking out of the window into the Platz.</p>
			<p>“He has come,” she said excitedly, appearing at Lucy’s door. “He went into the church first, to say an ave for help, poor little man! His fat face is quite pale and stern. It is a matter of life and death to him. And it’s no more to you than the choosing of a new coat.”</p>
			<p>Lucy smiled and sketched in a priest on the church steps. Her hand shook, but Jean could not see that. She went to the window again with something like an inward oath at the dolts of commonplace women who had all the best chances, but was back in a moment, laughing nervously.</p>
			<p>“Do you know he has on that old brown suit?” She leaned against the jamb of the door. “If I were a prince, and came a-wooing, I would have troops of my Jagers, and trumpets and banners with the arms of my House, and I’d wear all my decorations. Of course we Americans are bound to say that rank and royalty are dead things. But if I had them, I’d galvanize the corpses! If they are useful as shows, I’d make the show worth seeing. I’d cover myself with jewels like the old Romanoffs. You would never see Queen Jean in a slouchy alpaca and pork-pie hat like Victoria.” While her tongue chattered, her eyes watched Lucy keenly. “You don’t hear me! You are deciding what to do. Why on earth should you hesitate? He is a gentleman⁠—he loves you!” and then to Lucy’s relief she suddenly threw on her hat and rushed off for a walk.</p>
			<p>Miss Dunbar painted the priest’s robe yellow, in her agitation. But the agitation was not deep. There really seemed no reason why she should hesitate. He would be kind; he was well-bred and agreeable. A princess? She had a vague idea of a glorified region of ancestral castles and palaces in which dukes and royalties dwelt apart and discoursed of high matters. She would be one of them.</p>
			<p>The other day there seemed to be no reason why she should not marry <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Perry. In marriage then one must only consider the suitability of the man? There was nothing else to consider⁠—⁠</p>
			<p>With a queer, hunted look in her soft eyes she worked on, daubing on paint liberally.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile, in the little salle below, Miss Vance sat stiffly erect, while the prince talked in his shrill falsetto. Although he set forth his affection for the engelreine Madchen as simply as the little German baker in Weir (whom he certainly did resemble) might have done, she could find, in her agitation, no fitting words in which to answer him. That she, Clara Vance, should be the arbiter in a princely alliance! At last she managed to ask whether Miss Dunbar had given him any encouragement on which to found his claim.</p>
			<p>“Ah, Fraulein Vance!” he cried, laughing. “The hare does not call to the hounds! But I have no fear. She speaks to me in other ways than by words.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Mein Herz und seine Augen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Verstehen sich gar so gut!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>You know the old song. Ah, ja! I understand what she would say⁠—here!” touching his heart.</p>
			<p>He paced up and down, smiling to himself. Suddenly he drew up before her, tossing his hands out as if to throw away some pleasant dream. “I have come to you, gracious lady, as I would to the mother of Miss Dunbar. I show to you the heart! But before I address her it is necessary that I shall consult her guardian with regard to business.”</p>
			<p>It was precisely, Clara said afterward, as if the baker from Weir had stopped singing, and presented his bill.</p>
			<p>“Business?” she gasped. “Oh, I see! Settlements. We don’t have such things in the States. But I quite understand all those European social traits. I have lived abroad for years. I⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Who is Miss Dunbar’s guardian?” the prince demanded alertly. He sat down by the table and took out a notebook and papers.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—settlements? Is not that a little premature?” she ventured. “She has not accepted you.”</p>
			<p><i>He</i> may not accept my financial proposals. It is business, you see. The gentle ladies, even die Amerikaner, do not comprehend business. It is not, you perceive, dear lady, the same when the head of the House of Wolfburgh allies himself with a hochgeboren Fraulein as when the tailors marry⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Nor bakers. I see,” stammered Clara.</p>
			<p>“Miss Dunbar’s properties are valuable. Her estate in Del-aware,” glancing at his notebook, “is larger than some of our German kingdoms. Her investments in railway and mining securities, if put on the market, should be worth a million of florins. These are solid matters, and must be dealt with carefully.”</p>
			<p>“But, good gracious, Prince Wolfburgh!” cried Miss Vance, “how did you find out about Lucy’s investments?”</p>
			<p>He looked at her in amazement. “Meine gnadigste Fraulein! It is not possible that you supposed that in such a matter as this men leap into the dark⁠—the men of rank, princes, counts, English barons, who marry the American mees? That they do not know for what they exchange their⁠—all that they give? I will tell you,” with a condescending smile. “There are agents in the States⁠—in New York⁠—in Chicago⁠—in⁠—how do you name it? <abbr>St.</abbr> Sanata. They furnish exact information as to the dot of the lady who will, perhaps, marry here. Oh, no! We do not leap into the dark!”</p>
			<p>“So I perceive,” said Clara dryly. “And may I inquire, your Highness, what financial arrangement you propose, in case she becomes your wife?”</p>
			<p>“Assuredly.” He hastily unfolded a large paper. “This must be accepted by her guardian before the betrothal can take place. I will translate, in brief. The whole estate passes to me, and is secured to me in case of my wife’s death without issue. I inserted that clause,” he said, looking up, smiling, for approval, “because American Frauleins are so fragile⁠—not like our women. I will, of course, if we have issue, try to preserve the real estate for my heir, and the remaining property for my other children.”</p>
			<p>“It seems to me that a good deal is taken for granted there,” said Clara, whose cheeks were very hot. “And where does Miss Dunbar come into this arrangement? Is she not to have any money at all?”</p>
			<p>“My widow, should I die first, will be paid an annuity from my estate. But while Mees Lucy is my wife, <i>I</i> will buy all that she needs. I will delight to dress her, to feed her well. With discretion, of course. For there are many channels into which my income must flow. But I will not be a niggardly husband to her! No, no!” cried the little man in a glow.</p>
			<p>“That is very kind of you. But she will not have any of her own money to spend? In her own purse? To fling into the gutter if she chooses?”</p>
			<p>The prince laughed gayly. “How American you are, gracious lady! A German wife does not ask for her ‘own purse.’ My wife will cease to be American; she will be German,” patting his soft hands ecstatically. “But you have not told me the name of her guardian?”</p>
			<p>“Lucy,” said Miss Vance reluctantly, “is of age. She has full control of her property. A Trust Company manages it for her, but they have no authority to stop her if she chooses to⁠—throw it into the gutter.”</p>
			<p>The prince looked up sharply. Could this be a trick? But if it were, the agent would find out for him. He rose.</p>
			<p>“To have the sole disposal of her own hand and of her fortune? That seems strange to us,” he said, smiling. “But I have your consent, most dear lady, to win both, if I can?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, prince. If you can.”</p>
			<p>He took her hand and bowed profoundly over it, but no courtly grace nor words could bring back Clara’s awe of him. She had a vague impression that the Weir baker had been wrangling with her about his bill.</p>
			<p>“Your Highness has asked a good many questions,” she said. “May I put one to you? Did you inquire concerning Miss Hassard’s dot, also?” “Ah, certainly! Why not? It is very large. I have spoken of it to my cousin Count Odo. But the drawback⁠—her father still lives. He may marry again. Her dot depends upon his good pleasure. Whereas Miss Dunbar is an orphan; and besides that, she is so dear to me!” clasping his hands, his face red with fervor. “So truly dear!”</p>
			<p>And she knew that he honestly meant it.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
